You had mentioned earlier that
when you're on this training
phase, when you first got to Tinian, that you
didn't actually have your own plane. That you sort
of went up in whatever was loose. Whatever was
available. Usually the oldest junker over there.
That's right, the one nobody else... When did you
get your own plane? We got our own plane
probably after
our eighth mission.
Was that typical?
It just depended on the losses.
Some of the older crews, see we went in as a
replacement crew, some of the older crews that
were in there,
if
they weren't assigned to fly the mission and their
plane was available, another crew would fly that
plane.
If it was lost on the mission, then this older crew
didn't have a plane. Oh, oh. And they got the next
new plane. So seniority kind of thing. So
seniority. The next new plane came in, coming in,
was theirs. Okay.
So the system took, in your case, eight missions.
Eight missions. Before you generated enough
seniority to get a plane. To get a plane.
Did you all personalize your plane in any way? We
didn't name it. It wasn't painted, right? It was
silver? No, it was just silver. Actually,
most of the 29s weren't painted, were they? No,
there was no paint on them, just the nose art, if
they had any.
When we first went in and they had the coral
runways,
we'd have to go down occasionally
the whole crew plus the ground crew, and we'd wash
them to get that coral off the bottom to reduce the
drag on them. I was wondering about that, how you
wash the planes, because the friends I've got who
are pilots, they go out and wash planes all the
time, maybe little Cessnas and stuff like that,
because it really matters with a Cessna. You can
lose 10 miles an hour by having a dirty plane. And a
man with a big old bomber carrying a whole lot of, I
mean, you didn't want to lose anything,
especially.
But once the runways were paved, that became less
of a critical issue? Not quite as critical.
Because that car road, if the runways were at least
a bit damp, it would just stick like cement. Yeah.
We took one night,
we took off,
it was probably about two o'clock in the morning or
something like that.
Our runways were a little over 10,000 feet long.
We took off on coral runways
and came back 14
hours later and landed on asphalt runways.
Somebody had been busy. They had worked for months
mining this coral, crushing it, getting it all
prepared for asphalt. They had mountains of it.
And when we took off, there was just train after
train of the asphalt pavers and the mixes there. As
soon as we all got off the runways, they started in.
Hmm. Now was this Army engineer guys who did this?
Seabees. Or Seabees? Construction battalions?
That's impressive. And they had lights
strung out all along there so they could
work at night. We came back, landed in the
daylight, but on a black runway.
You knew that was going to happen. Oh, yeah. Yeah,
they were all. Is this the right island? They were
all out there strung out along the runways as we
were taking off. Yeah.
And the coral was probably a light color, right?
Oh, yeah, it was white. Yeah. Glare off of it. In
fact, the first time we landed on a coral runway, It
was a quadulant.
And the pilots really bounced it in there.
Couldn't find it. Because of the glare coming up
off of it. They weren't used to anything that
bright. And it put some flat spots on the wheels.
Yeah, I'll bet. I'll bet. How long, or you probably
wouldn't even necessarily know this, but how long
did those tires last? Seems like they'd be a
tremendous amount of wear. Many of those, reading
that book, a lot of those planes took off way over
their low level. Oh, yeah, way, way. And I was
thinking, you know, coming back, you know, you
could just stray around. It goes, I mean, you'll
get a flat tire or something. I mean, there could be
some serious stresses and strains on the, not just
the gear, but the tires themselves. We never lost a
tire. In fact, that landing at Kwajalein, which
we, He bounced him and then came in, came back down
for the second landing. He had put the brakes on and
tried to hit it that first and it just went up and
came back down. The wheels weren't turning when he
landed and it kind of skidded for a while and wore
some black spot. And those tires were changed out.
But other than that, we didn't ourselves
experience any difficulties with tires. But of
course, it was a problem. Yeah.
Was that, do you think that was sort of a function of
pilot skill, maybe?
You mean like our instance? Yeah. Well, it was just
something new. They had never flown in that type of
conditions before. That's not what I meant. What I
meant was the fact that you didn't have any
problems with your tires. Well, it was just we
didn't get hit. We didn't get any
anti-aircraft fire or any bullets through or
anything that damaged one. And the pilots,
usually the pilots They were pretty smooth
landings.
That was our two oldest crew members. What kind of
rank were the pilots? Were they captains, majors?
One was a captain, one was first lieutenant. Both
of them had been infantry officers and
transferred out of the infantry and went to pilot
training school.
And the airplane commander, who was the captain,
had been in the training command for a while. Once
he finished pilot training, he stayed in the
training command and was training pilots
in multi-engine stuff. You mentioned also that
after 15 missions, you went back to the States to go
to lead crew school. What was the significance of
the 15 missions? A
tour of duty was 35 missions. If you were selected
for a lead crew, they didn't want you using up those
missions that you had remaining on your tour. When
you came back, you still had 20 missions that you
could fly as a lead crew.
so once we hit the it was just an arbitrary figure uh
that they had selected at that time uh
crews to go back to lead crew school they could
envision that down the line some of the the pilots
that were flying leading the formations in and so
forth were nearing a tour of duty they needed
replacements yeah there's a perpetual contract
perpetual thing and uh Our crew was selected to
become a lead crew. But not everyone was, is that
right? No. I mean that said something about your
crew I would think. Something positive. It was a
positive action on our, we took it to be very
positive that we were well regarded. Where did you
go to lead crew school? Muroc. Oh really? On the dry
lake? Dry lake.
It's Edwards Air Force Base now, isn't it? Yeah.
But we went each crew there at Muroc. And
while we were there was when they dropped the
atomic bombs.
So you never actually went back? So then we were
traveling under Class A priority.
And after
the Japanese surrendered, they went under our
priorities because of military government
personnel going to Japan. had a higher priority
than me.
So what happened after that? Did you ever get back
to the Pacific? No.
We went to Sacramento.
Hamilton Field and stayed there for about a month.
Three weeks to a month. While they were, the powers
that be were trying to decide what to do with us. So
they finally sent us to separation centers.
Where'd you send them? Lackland. Oh, really? They
sent you to the one nearest your home. So I went to
Lackland. And when was this? This was in, was it
still 45? 45. So you got out in the fall, I guess? I
got out
in, let's see, that was in.
Bombs were dropped in August. Surrender was
September. I got out actually in October. Oh,
that's pretty quick. And had final, I had a leave
up, well into December. So you got paid through up
into December. Okay. The entire time that I was in
the service, I never had a leave.
It was always from one school to the next,
I did get home. Well, you were in for two years,
though. A little over two years, about two and a
half. Nearly two and a half years. So there was some
accumulated leave. And you got out as a one
lieutenant? First lieutenant, yeah.
Did you stay in the reserves or anything after you
got out? I stayed in the reserves. Got called up in
Korea. No, are you kidding? and
went to Randolph Field.
And because I had flown in B-29s and they were
training crews on B-29s, I stayed there as an
instructor for 19 months and then got out. I got out
of the reserves. I got enough of that. What were you
by the time you got out of that? You probably got
promoted again. No. You didn't sell a first
lieutenant. Because I wasn't staying in. Oh. They
knew when the 19 months was up that I was gone.
Well, that's interesting. So when you separated,
you went back to A&M. In January of 46. And decided.
You didn't want electrical engineering anymore.
You got into architecture. Yeah. I went down
beforehand
and talked to Mr. Langford.
He okayed the transfer over into the architecture
department.
Now you graduated in 40... 46? No, 48. I got out in
January of 49. 49, okay. And what did you do then?
Before you got back in the green water. Well, I came
to Dallas and went to work for a construction
company.
Starting out in the office as an estimator. Going
over the plans and working as an estimator. And
then we got a job
in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. You mean as a contractor?
As a contractor. And guess who he met there? Out on
the town site. I was going to get to that. And so I
went out there as the field engineer. It
was a housing project. For the scientists and what
have you? Some of it, it was completely on
township. The government owned it all then. And
the facilities were assigned. I don't know how
they went about assigning who lived where, but we
had about
Well, we had two housing projects there. One of
them was some little duplexes, which at the time
were set up as colored housing.
That was before the days of any integration, even
in the government ranks. And then the others were
apartment buildings and some row houses.
In total, we were probably building 1,100 units or
something like that. 1,100? So you were up there
for quite a while.
Well, I was up. Would have been there for quite a
while, but actually I was up. Because you got
snatched away. So well, yeah, if you left A&M in
January of 49, You were a big 25 years of age, still a
young man.
You got a job as a contractor. Is the contractor
still in business? No. He's dead now. Man,
Laverne.
Then you went to Tennessee. When did you meet
Betty? In Tennessee. I mean, was that before you
went to this Korea thing at Randolph or wherever?
when we married just before I left our service.
How'd you meet her?
I didn't. It was a blind date.
We knew each other approximately
four months when we were
married. It was really a blind date? And 46 years
later,
there we are.
Oh, you're a lonely guy, out of town, right?
And you got married just before you got yanked back
into the service?
Well, I got the call to come to report for duty. What
was that, 1950?
And y'all got married in Tennessee?
In August and came to Texas. In August? In August. I
thought I'd died and gone
to hell. At Texas City. Texas City, oh, that's
great.
Well, you just missed the explosion. Texas City.
Just after? Yeah, the town blew up in 48, 49,
something like that. This was 50. Built back. No, I
stationed at Ellington Field for a month.
Refresher course. And then went from there to
Randolph. So you got to accompany your husband.
Mm-hmm.
Randolph wasn't bad. No, Randolph wasn't bad.
Ellington could have been nasty. It was that odor
in Texas City and the mosquitoes. And a little gal
from the hills of Tennessee had never experienced
that before. Yeah, because they've got
mosquitoes you can track on radar. Oh, Lord. Our
walls were red.
No air conditioning. That was the only place where
we could find any place to stay. Military
personnel that
are going to be there for a month, it's hard to find
an apartment. This
one real estate agent called to Texas City and
there was this one guy had got called up, recalled
in the Marine Corps.
And he had no objections to it. Military personnel
using, it was actually a row house. A
little one bedroom row house. And the shoes and
everything in the closet, mildew. They're still
flying at Arlington. They had a big air show down
there just last weekend. Yeah, well, NASA uses it
quite a bit, don't they? Yeah. No, they have
several big air shows down there. It's not
military anymore, but it's the Confederate Air
Force does stuff there every year. I finally got to
see the inside of the B-29, the one that's still
flying. We were out. I don't know how much longer
they're going to let that plane fly either. They
got one in England at Duxford. They've got one up at
Bright-Patterson, but it doesn't fly. They've
got one, well, they got the Enola Gay at the
Smithsonian. But you can't crawl around in there.
No, but they let me in this one out here. Is that
because of your husband? We got out there. They
have quite a display of planes out there. Oh, yeah,
I'm sure. A lot of it's Navy. The Navy's back in the
facility out there. That was where the money came
from.
We went out there and It was just about an hour
before closing time. They said, well, if you want
to go through the museum, they said it takes you
about at least two hours to go through it. You won't
have time. I said, I don't want to see one plane.
I want to see the B-29. And so we went out there, and
there were three or four mechanics working on it.
I told them what I wanted to do. They put a ladder up
so that we could get in. I was going to say, because
you have to swing up. Isn't there a little hatch you
swing up? There's a hatch. And there are some rungs
that we used to climb up on, but they put a ladder up.
But the old man. And Daddy went on up in there. Was it
the first time you were back in a B-29? Mm-hmm. Was
it the way you remember it? Oh well they have gutted
it primarily. Oh really? The gun turret has been
taken out. A lot of the equipment has been...
Updated? The navigation equipment is obsolete so
it's all been taken out and
this positioning system that they have now by
satellite. The GPS thing. They have that mounted.
The bombardier's section is out, and they have
that mounted between the two pilots up where the
bombardier would be sitting. Yeah, a lot of that's
probably just extra weight. They stripped it of
all unessential waste. That makes sense.
Especially where they're flying it. And they say
it still costs them about $5,000 an hour to fly that
thing. Oh, I know. I know. Well, not only that,
where do you get 120 octane avgas nowadays? They
don't make this stuff. I don't know what they're
flying that thing on. They're either putting in
some sort of super additive, or they've detuned
the engines. So they'll run it. I know a lot of guys
who detune the engines. these old World War II
planes? Because you can't get really super high
octane aviation gas. It's a problem. Nobody makes
it. Nobody uses it. The demand is for jet fuel.
Yeah, that's right. That's exactly right. And
see, all these little Cessnas and everything
else, they're just riding around with low-led
whatever or no-led. I mean, so it's... It's hard.
It's kind of hard. I bet you the one in Smithsonian
probably looks like what you remember. Well, now,
I understood that all they had was just an old
section. They didn't have the complete plane. Oh,
you may be right. Now, they're trying to raise...
There's one out in Arizona someplace that there's
a group trying to raise money to get it back into
flying condition. Is this the same outfit in that
museum in Davis-Monthan? There's a museum in the
desert in California that got started within the
last 10 years, maybe. And they're in the desert on
purpose. It's dry. Well, that's why they moved
Confederate Air Force to Midland, was to get it out
of that Harlingen humidity. The heat doesn't hurt
anything, but the humidity's bad. And there's an
Air Force flying museum. They got started in
somewhere out in California, maybe near Muroc, I
don't know. Somewhere out there. That may be the
same bunch. See, if they're going to fly it,
though, it seems to me they would take all the
electronics out. Nobody needs old World War II
radios. Nobody wants World War II navigation
systems. No, the old radar unit, and it was a bulky
thing. We had Loran, which was, I doubt if they even
have a Loran transmitting station that will work
off the frequencies that they were using back
then. The Loran has been taken out. Well, that's
all gotten real uptown in navigation. It's quite
the deal.
So you all got married when? 1950? August. That's
right, you told me that, August.
And then you had to enter the service again that
same month? Mm-hmm. What's the mistake?
We went to Biloxi first. What, you honeymoon to
Biloxi?
And there we had the roaches and the ants. We
haven't had a breeze for years. I
had to be true lover. I never would have made it.
Well, I don't know. There's worse places in
Biloxi. It's a short list. Where? But there are
worse places. San Antonio was
nice. We enjoyed living there. The only thing I
didn't like was when I'd get on the bus to go
downtown and everything, all I heard was Spanish.
You know, I thought, they're all talking about me.
You could have learned Spanish and discovered
that they weren't. I know. But I learned to drive in
San Antonio. That's why I'm such a good driver. You
will. You will. That town is, street-wise, is one
of the most disorganized towns I've ever been to.
Sure. They tell me it's built on cow trails. No, no.
Cows are much more organized than that. There's
a...
Well, you got out then in what, 52? 52. And you came
back, you worked for the same contractor here in
Dallas? For a while.
What else did you build, just more buildings? Then
three of us left
there and set up our own company, which was kind of
short-lived.
You mean the partnership didn't work out, or the
economy didn't support it, or what? Partnership
just didn't work out.
One of them was kind of addicted to the bottle.
Makes it sound. I went then with another company,
which I stayed with for 20 some odd years.
Bought into it. Ended up as one of the major
stockholders in the company. And we were very
successful.
It's still going.
I sold out my interest when I retired.
What kind of things did you build? With them, we
built, we specialized in warehouses. Warehouses
and light industrial buildings. These kind of big
butler sort of buildings? Not butler, but more of
the tilt-up wall or masonry walls.
Beams and joist roofs. You did that in Texas or
Southwest? I did it primarily in Dallas.
We would go to Fort Worth, we went to Arlington,
Mid-Cities areas.
We built the building primarily for Trimal Crow.
How do you spell it? C-R-O-W. Trimal Crow Company.
I'm talking about trammels. T-R-A-M-M-E-L.
T-R-A-M-M-E-L-L. O-E-L-L.
Someone will ask when we're transcribing this,
how do you spell it? He's one of them. Big
developers in the world. He
started spreading out all over the country and
wanted us to grow too, but we didn't want to get
that. We wanted something that we could,
at the time there were just three of us, something
that we could control, keep our, actual hands-on
operation. We did
most of the engineering
on the buildings.
We could take it from the ground up. Not only did the
construction, but the engineering. Worked out
very convenient.
Did you use somebody else's Drawings, you have
your own architect? Trammell Crowe had an
architect. They would give us the layout, the
general appearance, and we'd take it from there to
get
a completed building.
And it worked. It was a very expeditious type of
operations.
We could give him a building. much shorter than
normal development time, building time, where
you'd go to an architect, get them to draw a plan to
put out for bids and so forth.
We cut that time considerably, which, when you're
building on borrowed money and getting a tenant in
and so forth is very desirable. Worked well for
him, worked well for us.
Yeah. Did you use your own? We
used our own labor force and we had some subs that we
used. We had an electrical subcontractor, we had
an air conditioning subcontractor, we had a
plumbing subcontractor.
The air conditioning and the plumbing
subcontractors each we set up in business.
did primarily our work, the electrical
contractor was somebody that we had worked with
for years. We worked with those contractors all
the way through. They were in the design and
development stage as well as the construction
part of it. They designed the air conditioning
part, they designed the electrical work, did the
electrical engineering.
And you retired when? Okay,
and you worked with this group for 26 years, you
said? 23 years and some odd months. 23, that means.
Well, what were you doing then in between? See, I'm
missing some years here. You got out of the Air
Force in 52. You went to work for a contractor.
Stayed with him. 17 years, I don't remember. We
just started a partnership. That was in 50...
Both of them have always been burned when we met
one, so that would have been about 57.
So you worked with this other contractor for what,
three, four years? about like that, maybe
five. It must have been about five years before we
actually split up, because it was 66 when I went
with my friend, Ben Miller.
So your partnership lasted what, three years?
About three years. So about 1960 that dissolved?
Well, it dissolved in 66. I went with this other
company. We probably set it up in about 60. 59
or 60. And then you went with this other outfit?
that you worked with for 23 years in 66.
Which is during big growth time in Dallas. It was.
Through the 80s.
We had more work than we wanted. We turned work
down. We just couldn't do it. and gave some of them
to other contractors.
I guess the boys are still running it, I don't know.
Haven't kept up with it since our retirement. Tell
me a little bit about your
thoughts, your relationship with A&M now. You
were born in 24, this is 96, so you're 72,
still young.
I know you've been involved in this travel group,
the Aggie. When did you get started
doing that? 86 was our first trip. 86, we took our
first trip, and then that was... a few years after
that before we took another one. But you've been on
several of those. But we've been on several of them
now. Really enjoy traveling with them.
Usually it's with there's
someone on the trip that we know or have traveled
with before
something of that nature, and it's always nice to
be traveling with a congenial group of people.
Sure.
Let me back up, maybe I asked the question wrong.
What I guess I'd like to know is,
well it may be obvious to you, it's not necessarily
obvious to anyone else, why you would have an
affinity for A&M besides the fact that you
graduated?
What I'm trying to get at is why or what were your
motivations as you, after you graduated, to stay
in touch with the school, to be involved with the
school to the degree you have been? Have you always
been involved that way? Is it something that's
happened in the last I've
been involved with the Farmer Students
Association probably for the last 25 years or so.
It was just an occasional trip down there before
that.
Our son Our oldest son went to school there and
graduated. He's the one that we lost and who's on
our way. We have this President's Endowment
Scholarship plus then this student system
endowment in his memory.
It's more or less payback time.
The training and so forth that I got there, the
education, the training was what enabled me to be
able to do something for them.
In general, I like their
attitude toward
making education available
at a reasonable cost to people.
I don't think there's anybody
that wants to go to get a college education now but
with all the scholarships and assistance that is
available
at state universities such as A&M that couldn't
get an education.
I'm willing to help along those lines as best I can.
Sounds good.
Now a really tough question. What should I have
asked you that I
didn't? That isn't that question. Because I
either didn't know to ask you or...
You've covered just about every subject in this,
but I can think of anything you can think to add to
it.
I'm just interested in the school.
more from the
academic part of it. Otherwise, I know that a lot of
the graduates, there's nothing down there but a
football team. I get really tired of that. And I
have never given or supported the athletic
department. I figure they get enough money to get
into enough trouble without me contributing to
it. But there are more beneficial ways that I can
put what money I'm able to give to them to use.
Thank you. Actually, I wish there were more guys
like him, frankly. You're right. The athletic
program, I think, is self-sustaining.
In fact, it seems to be more than self-sustaining
in many ways. But there are certain academic
programs, and the library's only one of them.
There are numerous academic programs that go big.
I guess there isn't any reason for that. It's
always refreshingly pleasant to find somebody
who is interested. Three things that I have
supported. That's the Alumni Association, the
Corps, and then the library.
So you can't think of anything I should have
asked? I haven't had it in a long time. Well, I know
there's somebody who doesn't have the wit to ask.
Maybe what will happen when I get this transcribed
and send it back to you, it might trigger some
thoughts or ideas. Well, I don't know. We're
not real exciting people. Well, like I said, I'm
not necessarily looking for excitement either.
That would be suspicious if all I heard were a
series of exciting stories.
I mean, you know what I'm saying? We're just...
That's
not the way real people live. Everyday citizens.